Bechdel test for the representation of women in film industry:

Data analysis of gender disparity in Hollywood The Bechdel test is named after cartoonist Alison Bechdel, 
who introduced the idea in a comic strip in the year 1985. To pass the test, a story needs to have:

   * At least two women
   * The women need to talk to each other
   * They need to talk to each other about something other than a man

Apparently, there were a large number of movies that did not fulfill the requirements to pass the Bechdel test

The Data Question: My aim was to collect data from various different sources, and answer the following questions about the Bechdel test:

    Have the Bechdel scores of movies improved over the years?
    Do movies with higher IMDB ratings have higher Bechdel scores?
    Do movies with female directors have higher Bechdel scores?
    Does the budget of a movie have any impact on its Bechdel score?
    Do movies with higher Bechdel scores generate a larger revenue?

Data Collection: I collected data from three different sources: bechdeltest.com, Kaggle, and ggplot2 movies dataset.

Data Analysis: I used Python to perform all data analysis and visualization.

Sources:

    I got data from bechdeltest.com,using their API.
    A different dataset called movies.csv from ggplot2, and merge it with exsiting df.
    A different movielatest.csv dataset from Kaggle.

Did some analysis and visualisation of the plots. 

Some interesting data findings include:

  * Movies that fail the Bechdel test tend to have higher IMDB ratings.
  * Over the years, there has been an increasing number of movies that pass the Bechdel test.
  * Movies with female directors have higher Bechdel scores.
  * There is no clear correlation between the budget or revenue of a movie and its Bechdel score.

Of course, this analysis was only done with the data I gathered from three places, and might not represent the entire population of movies out there.

Furthermore, there may have been other variables present that affected the outcome of this analysis, and it might be a good idea to experiment with data from a couple of other places before coming to a conclusion.

Finally, I would like to mention that the Bechdel test is not necessarily the best benchmark to measure female representation in movies. 
It does not take into consideration how well written a female character is, neither does it measure meaningful depth of character.

However, it is one of the most well-known metrics used to expose gender bias and is the only test we have this kind of data on.
